In structural streaming, watermark was introduced
to solve two main problems with Spark streaming.
In real world, there will be a ton of
unexpected disruptions within applications and systems like loss of node,
failure to allocate memory,
applications losing connections, etc.
Because of these kinds of disruptions,
the data might not actually arrive in the order that they were generated.
To handle these kind of data,
structure streaming introduced a concept called watermark.
Basically, watermark handles two problems.
It determines which late data can be accepted in
the pipeline and then discard the ones that is too old.
So unacceptable, data from the state store.
To handle watermark successfully,
we need to know two things.
A column that defines event time and a value for the delay threshold.
Let's take a look at these diagrams to understand the differences between
plain aggregation and watermark and what happens when you use with watermark constraint.
This diagram depicts a simple aggregation except it's happening over a window.
For the sake of simplicity,
let's say we're receiving
a random animal names at any random time over five minutes interval.
So during the interval of 12:00 and 12:05,
we get a cat,
and three dogs, and a donkey.
During the interval of 12:05 and 12:10,
we get two dolphins and a cat,
and this continues over.
As you can see, it shows aggregation over the interval time.
So here you see one cat,
three dogs, and a donkey.
Over here, you get a aggregation over 12:00
and 12:10 which includes two cats and a donkey and two dolphins and three dogs.
Let's look at another diagram which now has watermark constraint added.
Now consider what happens if one of the event arrives late to your application.
The blue box here is that delay threshold.
So let's say we have it for 10 minutes.
The word donkey was generated at 11:55 and arrived at the application at 12:02.
Since it doesn't fall within the threshold,
it will not be aggregated.
Consider this case when donkey was created at 12:04 but arrived into the system at 12:07.
This data was generated of n arrived late but falls within the threshold.
So we'll keep in the aggregation which is annotated in red.
Imagine you're running this application for
days then it becomes necessary for the system to
know the amount of intermediate in memory state that the system accumulates.
This implies a system actually needs to know when
an old aggregate can be dropped from the in-memory state.
This is called watermarking which lets the system automatically track
the current event time in the data and attempt to clean up old state accordingly.
The computation for a watermark is based on the max of
event time seen by the engine minus the delay threshold.
In other words, late data within the threshold will be aggregated.
But data later than the threshold will start getting dropped.
From the previous example,
we can say that the threshold was 10 minutes and
the max time seen by the engine was at 12:10.
So any data coming between 12:00 and 12:10 will be
evaluated by watermark and either be accepted to the application or discarded.